#summary Overview of writing custom scopes for Guice

= Introduction =

Scopes are one of Guice's most powerful features.


= Best Practices =

Prefer to bind with the scope annotation rather than the scope instance:
{{{
  // good:
  bind(Foo.class).in(ServletScopes.REQUEST);

  // better:
  bind(Bar.class).in(RequestScoped.class);
}}}
This way you can reuse the module in a non-servlets environment by specifying a different scope to implement for `RequestScoped.class`


= Custom Scopes =

It is generally recommended that users *do not* write their own custom scopes -- the built-in scopes should be sufficient for most applications. If you're writing a web application, the `ServletModule` provides simple, well tested scope implementations for HTTP requests and HTTP sessions. 

In the rare case that you do need a custom scope, `SimpleScope` is a decent starting point. Copy this class into your project and tweak it to suit your needs.

{{{
/**
 * Scopes a single execution of a block of code. Apply this scope with a
 * try/finally block: <pre>   {@code
 *
 *   scope.enter();
 *   try {
 *     // explicitly seed some seed objects...
 *     scope.seed(Key.get(SomeObject.class), someObject);
 *     // create and access scoped objects
 *   } finally {
 *     scope.exit();
 *   }
 * }</pre>
 *
 * The scope can be initialized with one or more seed values by calling
 * <code>seed(key, value)</code> before the injector will be called upon to
 * provide for this key. A typical use is for a servlet filter to enter/exit the
 * scope, representing a Request Scope, and seed HttpServletRequest and
 * HttpServletResponse.  For each key inserted with seed(), it's good practice
 * (since you have to provide <i>some</i> binding anyhow) to include a
 * corresponding binding that will throw an exception if Guice is asked to
 * provide for that key if it was not yet seeded: <pre>   {@code
 *
 *   bind(key)
 *       .toProvider(SimpleScope.<KeyClass>seededKeyProvider())
 *       .in(ScopeAnnotation.class);
 * }</pre>
 *
 * @author Jesse Wilson
 * @author Fedor Karpelevitch
 */
public class SimpleScope implements Scope {

  private static final Provider<Object> SEEDED_KEY_PROVIDER =
      new Provider<Object>() {
        @Override
        public Object get() {
          throw new IllegalStateException("If you got here then it means that" +
              " your code asked for scoped object which should have been" +
              " explicitly seeded in this scope by calling" +
              " SimpleScope.seed(), but was not.");
        }
      };
  private final ThreadLocal<Map<Key<?>, Object>> values
      = new ThreadLocal<Map<Key<?>, Object>>();

  public void enter() {
    checkState(values.get() == null, "A scoping block is already in progress");
    values.set(Maps.<Key<?>, Object>newHashMap());
  }

  public void exit() {
    checkState(values.get() != null, "No scoping block in progress");
    values.remove();
  }

  public <T> void seed(Key<T> key, T value) {
    Map<Key<?>, Object> scopedObjects = getScopedObjectMap(key);
    checkState(!scopedObjects.containsKey(key), "A value for the key %s was " +
        "already seeded in this scope. Old value: %s New value: %s", key,
        scopedObjects.get(key), value);
    scopedObjects.put(key, value);
  }
  
  public <T> void seed(Class<T> clazz, T value) {
    seed(Key.get(clazz), value);
  }

  @Override
  public <T> Provider<T> scope(final Key<T> key, final Provider<T> unscoped) {
    return new Provider<T>() {
      @Override
      public T get() {
        Map<Key<?>, Object> scopedObjects = getScopedObjectMap(key);

        @SuppressWarnings("unchecked")
        T current = (T) scopedObjects.get(key);
        if (current == null && !scopedObjects.containsKey(key)) {
          current = unscoped.get();
          scopedObjects.put(key, current);
        }
        return current;
      }
    };
  }

  private <T> Map<Key<?>, Object> getScopedObjectMap(Key<T> key) {
    Map<Key<?>, Object> scopedObjects = values.get();
    if (scopedObjects == null) {
      throw new OutOfScopeException("Cannot access " + key
          + " outside of a scoping block");
    }
    return scopedObjects;
  }

  /**
   * Returns a provider that always throws exception complaining that the object
   * in question must be seeded before it can be injected.
   *
   * @return typed provider
   */
  @SuppressWarnings({"unchecked"})
  public static <T> Provider<T> seededKeyProvider() {
    return (Provider<T>) SEEDED_KEY_PROVIDER;
  }

}
}}}